[DX-978] Improved-URL-rewrite (#3943)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas.md

                            "rewriteTo": "https://beta.library.com/books/author",    
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
In this example, the basic trigger is configured as before, but two advanced triggers have been added.

The first advanced trigger has this configuration:
 - key location is query parameter
 - key name is genre
 - pattern is fiction

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author?genre=fiction` the advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be rewritten to `library/service/author?genre=fiction`.

The second advanced trigger has this configuration:
 - rule condition: ALL
 - rule 1
    - key location is header parameter
    - key name is `X-Enable-Beta`
    - pattern is `true``
 - rule 2
    - key location is session metadata
    - key name is `beta_enabled`
    - pattern is `true`

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author` with a header `"X-Enable-Beta":"true"` and, within the session metadata, `"beta_enabled":"true"` the second advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be written to `https://beta.library.com/books/author` taking the request to a different upstream host entirely.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The configurations above are complete and valid Tyk OAS API Definitions that you can import into Tyk to try out the URL rewriter.
```

---
title: Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk OAS APIs
date: 2024-01-17
description: "Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk OAS APIs"
tags: ["URL rewrite", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk OAS"]
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Remove H2 heading so that have page title, intro paragraph and section titles

Author: The reason for this is that it then appears in the right hand menu for easy navigation within the page

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Tyk's [URL rewriter]({{< ref "/transform-traffic/url-rewriting" >}}) uses the concepts of triggers and rules to determine if the request (target) URL should be modified. These can be combined in flexible ways to create sophisticated logic to direct requests made to a single endpoint to various upstream services (or other APIs internally exposed within Tyk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk's [URL rewriter]({{< ref "transform-traffic/url-rewriting" >}}) uses the concepts of triggers and rules to determine if the request (target) URL should be modified. These can be combined in flexible ways to create sophisticated logic to direct requests made to a single endpoint to various upstream services (or other APIs internally exposed within Tyk).
```

> URL rewrite triggers and rules are explained in detail [here]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-middleware" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL rewrite triggers and rules are explained in detail [here]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-middleware" >}}).
```

> When working with Tyk OAS APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}); this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk OAS APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}). You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

> When working with Tyk OAS APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "/tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}); this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk OAS APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}); this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.
```

> If you're using the legacy Tyk Classic APIs, then check out [this]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic" >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the legacy Tyk Classic APIs, then check out the [url-rewrite-tyk-classic]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic" >}}) page.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If you're using the legacy Tyk Classic APIs, then check out the [Tyk Classic]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic" >}}) page.
```

> If you're using the legacy Tyk Classic APIs, then check out the [Tyk Classic]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic" >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the legacy Tyk Classic APIs, then check out the [Tyk Classic]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic" >}}) page.
```

## Configuring the URL rewriter in the Tyk OAS API Definition

> The URl rewrite middleware can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URL rewrite middleware can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).
```

> The URl rewrite middleware can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).

Author: ```suggestion
The URl rewrite middleware (`urlRewrite`) can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).
```

> The URL rewrite middleware can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).

Author: ```suggestion
The URL rewrite middleware (`urlRewrite`) can be added to the `operations` section of the Tyk OAS Extension (`x-tyk-api-gateway`) in your Tyk OAS API Definition for the appropriate `operationId` (as configured in the `paths` section of your OpenAPI Document).
```

> For the basic trigger, you only need to enable the middleware (set `enabled:true`) and then configure the `pattern` and the `rewriteTo` (target) URL. The design of the Tyk OAS API Definition takes advantage of the `operationID` defined in the OpenAPI Document that declares both the path and method required by the basic trigger.

Reviewer: Maybe add link to opeationID in OAS schema page https://swagger.io/specification/

Author: ```suggestion
For the basic trigger, you only need to enable the middleware (set `enabled:true`) and then configure the `pattern` and the `rewriteTo` (target) URL. The design of the Tyk OAS API Definition takes advantage of the `operationID` [defined in the OpenAPI Document]({{< ref "getting-started/key-concepts/paths#operation-id" >}}) that declares both the path and method required by the basic trigger.
```

> ```{.json}

Author: I've created a couple of working examples that the reader can copy and paste into Dashboard.

You can add advanced triggers to your URL rewriter configuration by adding the `triggers` element within the `urlRewrite` middleware configuration for the operation.

The `triggers` element is an array, with one entry per advanced trigger. For each of those triggers you configure:
 - `condition` to set the logical condition to be applied to the rules (`any` or `all`)
 - `rules` a list of rules for the trigger
 - `rewriteTo` the address to which the (target) URL should be rewritten if the trigger fires

The rules are defined using this format:
```
{
    "in": key_location,
    "name": key_name,
    "pattern": pattern,
    "negate": true/false (set to true to trigger if pattern does not match)
}
```

Key locations are encoded as follows:
 - `header` - request header parameter
 - `query` - query parameter
 - `path` - path parameter (i.e. components of the path itself)
 - `sessionMetadata` - session metadata
 - `requestBody`- request body
 - `requestContext`- request context

For example:

> ```{.json}

Author: As for basic trigger, I've created a working Tyk OAS API definition that the user can paste and go

The first advanced trigger has this configuration:
 - key location is query parameter
 - key name is genre
 - pattern is fiction

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author?genre=fiction` the advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be rewritten to `library/service/author?genre=fiction`.

The second advanced trigger has this configuration:
 - rule condition: ALL
 - rule 1
    - key location is header parameter
    - key name is `X-Enable-Beta`
    - pattern is `true``
 - rule 2
    - key location is session metadata
    - key name is `beta_enabled`
    - pattern is `true`

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author` with a header `"X-Enable-Beta":"true"` and, within the session metadata, `"beta_enabled":"true"` the second advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be written to `https://beta.library.com/books/author` taking the request to a different upstream host entirely.

## Configuring the URL rewriter in the API Designer

Adding and configuring the URL rewrite feature to your API endpoints is easy when using the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard, simply follow the steps taken in this short video:

> < placeholder for video >

Reviewer: remember to add the link to the video
